4.2 Proof of Payment -

* You say that the customer can update this feedback for up to two
  months after the purchase. Later on in 5.4, you mention that the way
  a customer updates the feedback is by pointing the feedback to an
  IPNS name. How do you prevent them from updating after 2 months?

Response:

Good catch, I totally failed to elaborate on this and I realise this
actually might not work without extending the protocol.

The idea would be to require marketplaces to ignore any reviews with
creation more than 2 months after the initial payment. However, I now
think this was a requirement I tried to fit in towards the end. It
might make most sense to drop it for now. The reason is simply that I
don't think we can timestamp updates without requiring a blockchain
transaction, and maybe it is best to leave that for now.

4.5 Private Feedback -

* In 4.4 you claim that "no third party can directly profit from
  facilitating a trustless reputation system". But in 4.5, the
  feedback for the vendor is shared with a marketplace. What's
  stopping the marketplace from selling the unencrypted feedback with
  other marketplaces that the vendor doesn't want to be associated
  with? Assuming the vendor has shared with multiple marketplaces, the
  vendor can't even tell which marketplace is selling the vendor's
  data. And since the reviews are cryptographically provable, it's
  worth something in the market, no?


Response:

That is a very good point. Something I didn't think of till now. The
only way out of this is outside the system.

As the paper mentions in XX that marketplaces can choose to ignore
reviews backed by PoPR created by certain marketplaces. We expect
marketplaces behaviours will be closely scrutinized by other
marketplaces and other independent organisations, this is so simply
because of competition between marketplaces. So any bad behaviour by a
marketplace could be severly punished by other marketplaces. The
punishment would simply be to remove all reviews of vendors who have
sold on the rogue marketplace in the past, which will inturn create a
lot of pressure on the rogue marketplace to not indulge in such bad
behaviour.

5.2. Payment Record -

* What is Customer address? For Bitcoin, at least, if the customer
  pays a vendor, the address that the customer sent from is ambiguous,
  especially if the transaction that pays the vendor has lots of
  inputs. Similar things plague other blockchains.

Response:

Nice catch. Clearly a rookie mistake on my part. In fact, I am
planning on coming along to your seminar in London just cause I want
to avoid more of such errors. :)

To be honest, this data structure is really there to abstract out the
blockchain being used, and since account based blockchains like
Ethereum have the from address, this error kind of crept in.

I will change the description of customer_address to also say "where
available."

* Why is amount duplicated here and in Review Record? Payment Record
  has a Review Record which has a PoPR which has the amount. Why risk
  data corruption errors from having conflicting amounts?

Response:

Point taken. I think I was thinking of avoiding lookups, but really
that is an optimisation and we shouldn't bother with it right now (or
later!)

5.3 Review Record -

* Why is Currency and amount stored here? PoPR which it points to
  should have both, no?

Response:

Same as above. Premature optimisation is the root of all evil!

5.4 Key Distribution -

* What links P_v and P_ve besides being in the same IPNS? Can I just
  update the P_v under everyone's nose?

Response:

The only relation between P_v and P_ve is that they both are stored in
an IPNS location, and that simply implies that the same entity
controls them.

If a vendor changes P_v, the reviews backed by PoPR signed by the
corresponding S_v will all fail to validate. Tthe vendor will
essentially lose all the review history created with P_v/S_v
pair.

More importantly, marketplaces can detect this change, as all these
past reviews will suddenly become invalid. Marketplaces can then
punish the vendor for trying to hide and or tamper with the past.

Does this make sense? The whole system is trying to take away a
centralised trusted authority and replace it with incentives for
involved parties to not try and misbehave. Curious to hear what you
think about the approach in general.

5.4.1 Sharing the Vendor Signing Key -

* Why does the vendor share a secret key? The only thing that they use
  the secret key for is to sign the payment request, it looks
  like. Why do *both* vendor and marketplace need the *same* key?

Response:

This is an interesting question. By giving a marketplace the secret
key to sign a PoPR the vendor lets the marketplace create a PoPR
without requiring a vendor's participation. This allows marketplaces
to generated checkout pages that include a valid PoPR for a vendor.

I toyed with the idea of requiring a third party service to provide
this functionality to vendors, but these party services essentially
become centralised entities. I thought it was best to let the
marketplaces, vendors and customers directly trust, or not trust each
other, as the case might be.

Again, curious to hear if you think this approach make sense?

5.4.4 Verifying Reviews

* Is the only check that S_v and S_ve is owned by the same vendor the
  IPNS entry? Are there plans to countersign keys or anything of that
  nature?

Response:

No plans to countersign keys. I was thinking, does it not create a
dependency on whosoever countersigning keys? I do worry if they IPNS
dependency is too strong. What do you think?

5.4.5 Review Completeness

* You claim that "Once we show that review completeness property is
  provided for a single vendor address, it is easy to see how the
  protocol can be extended to support multiple vendor addresses". How
  does a marketplace ensure that they have all the vendor addresses?
  Most BTC merchants use a different address for every transaction.

Response:

I'll answer this in the context of bitcoin based blockchains.

All marketplaces and any other interested parties can monitor the
blockchain to detect OP_RETURN transactions with the Chlu prefix - we
haven't decided on the prefix yet. By following the Review Record and
the PoPR, all marketplaces have access to all reviews for all
addresses of all vendors. Then it comes down to mapping IPNS key
location to figure out which vendor the review is for.

You raised an interesting question here. I wonder if I should add more
meta data about the vendor in the vendor wallet setup time to identify
the vendor. We at Chlu have been leaving identity out of the equation
for a number of reasons. The one I like the best is to make an effort
to make a decentralised system work without requiring an
identity. Once we have that, adding identity will be easy and with the
right partnerships could provide an improved system - like they say in
the ads "Now with new improved formula" :)

5.4.6 Reviews After Product Delivery

* You note that an IPNS name is where a review will point. How can you
  ensure that the customer won't sell the key controlling the IPNS
  name to a competitor vendor?

Interesting point. To be honest, we don't mind that! :D We aren't
really tying the reputation to a real identity as yet. In fact this
reputation marketplace sounds interesting to me.

5.5 Sybil Attacks

* Not all vendors have to pay the marketplace. Amazon is a
  marketplace, but Amazon products don't have to pay Amazon, for
  example. How do you prevent Sybil attacks by a marketplace that's
  also a vendor?

This is a fascinating question. I really didn't think about this at
all. I guess an easy answer right now is to say, since Amazon has such
a strong reputation in the current world, other marketplaces will
simply trust Amazon sales, i.e. amazon will not be considered a "dummy
marketplace." But I realise this simple answer has problems.

Another answer is that Chlu really works for vendors selling on
marketplaces that they themselves don't own. I mean, Amazon doesn't
care what its reputation is on AliBaba. So maybe that is not a problem
we really want to solve. Does that make sense?

Also, am thinking, Chlu works for vendors on marketplaces, not really
for marketplaces themselves. 

----

This was the best analysis of Chlu I have seen till now. Thank you so
much for putting in the time to disect Chlu. It is really helpful!

