
2. Chlu Search

* You say that Chlu Search is a centralized service. Later on, you
  state that rewards (Chlu Search Tokens) are distributed by you to
  vendors and reviewers based on some parameters you define later. How
  can anyone verify that you're distributing these tokens fairly? Are
  you publishing some proof? Does someone audit your servers?

Response:

Rewards are distributed by an Ethereum smart contract, so there will
be an audit trail of the amount of rewards distributed and to
whom. You make a good point though, we should include a reference to a
review record in the ethereum transaction that is distributing the
reward.

By making it possible to load entire log of reviews from blockchains
(for example using looking up all bitcoin op_return transactions with
Chlu prefix) and correlating it with the Chlu Search Ethereum smart
contract, our system is open to audit by anyone.

I hope this makes sense and we are not making a fundamental error
somewhere here.

* How can anyone verify that Chlu is being honest when it's returning
  search results? It's a centralized service, so how can someone
  searching on Chlu know, for example, that you're not omitting some
  good or bad reputation of a vendor based on how much you've been
  bribed?

Response:

The database we are basing our results off is available on
IPFS. Anyone can build services to validate our results. In fact, we
believe anyone will be able to build a Chlu Search competitor using
the Chlu reputation data. As you can see we are highly incentivized to
remain transparent and fair.

3.1 Incentives for Creating Reviews

* How do you plan on changing Review Record? Adding a customer public
  key?

Response:

No, we add a signature by the customer in the review record.  The
corresponding public key is shared with Chlu Search at the time
customer sets up the wallet. We describe this wallet setup in detail
in the protocol specification. But we will add more details in this
paper to add clarity.

3.2 Providing Incentives for Increased Adoption

* What's the payment schedule for a customer writing a review? Does a
  $0.01 paper clip review get the same amount of money as a $2000
  computer review?

Response:

The short answer is yes! As long as the review is valid, there is no
reason to discriminate based on the purchase amount. It is the review
creation work that is valued here, not the value of the purchase.

You reckon there could be a problem with this?

3.3 Advertising on Chlu Search

* How do you charge the advertiser? Is it by number of views? Is it by
  clicks? What if you have multiple advertisers? Do they go
  round-robin? How do you decide which ads to display? What proof are
  you providing that a certain number of views have actually been
  displayed? What about ad-blockers?

Response:

Great questions. We should probably add this to the whitepaper. The
thing is the details aren't yet fully decided, we keep wavering what
will be the best approach and that is why haven't documented it yet.

- Vendors bid for keywords, for example, Plumber in New York. These bids
  could or could not be real time.

- Vendors then win this bid and they get position 1, 2 or 3 based on
  the bid. Others don't get ad impressions. This is similar to what
  happens on google search. Winner takes all - kind of.

- We have decided to not build a system that provides proof of the
  number of impressions, similar to how google and bing search ads
  work. It is important to distinguish that we are not aiming to build
  a display network, instead it is a meta search for vendors, almost
  like classified ad search.

- Since search is conducted on our site, for example, search.chlu.io,
  we don't have to deal with adblockers. If things grow and we do
  build a display network, then this question will be highly relevant.

We did think about how we could do a display network or provide a
decentralised search. However, we decided against it largely due to
the practical limitations on throughput on blockchains and our
reluctance to launch another blockchain (largely motivated by
namecoin's experience).

That is why we are upfront about Chlu Search being centralised and
completely dependent on a trusted party - us. What do you think about
this?  We don't really want to build a decentralised search, and would
love to hear what is your gut feeling about our choice of a
centralised search.

3.4.2 Chlu Search Tokens as Rewards

* When does a reviewer get credit for their review? When they register
  with Chlu? Or when they write the review? What if they register
  after they write the review? How do you prevent from writing reviews
  at 4am when there aren't many other reviewers reviewing? Current
  incentives make it so that you don't want to write reviews when many
  others are writing reviews. Current incentives also make it so that
  you will want to write one review per hour at the most.

- If a reviewer is already registered then they will get the reward at
  the top of the hour. The amount of reward is calculated based on the
  number of purchases at the hour when the purchase backing this
  review was made. Hope that answers when the reward is given out.

- If a reviewer is not registered to receive rewards, then later
  whenever they do register, they get the reward for all the past
  reviews when the next reward generation happens.

- Reward distribution is not calculated based on when the review was
  created, but when the purchase was made that backs this review. I
  should clarify this in the paper. Your question is still valid,
  people will make purchases at low traffic hours or days. I don't
  think we are worried about how reviewers will respond by altering
  their shopping habits, the thing is they will need to balance
  discounts during sales with reduced rewards from Chlu.

  We don't yet know how this will fully play out, and maybe we will
  need to adapt as things evolve. This is another reason to keep
  Search economy centralised, it won't be easy to modify if all the
  rules are coded up front into a smart contract. Instead our smart
  contract will just be a dumb reward distributor, all logic of how
  much and to whom is controlled by Chlu - and is open to review, as
  the distribution is publicly visible.
